MANIFEST.in
NAME
README.md
VERSION
setup.py
pkg/postinstall
projects.build/ACCELEROMETER.html
projects.build/BALANCING_DOT_1.html
projects.build/BALANCING_DOT_2.html
projects.build/BETTER_PIANO.html
projects.build/BOUNCING_BALL_1.html
projects.build/BOUNCING_BALL_2.html
projects.build/BREADBOARD_FIRST_CIRCUIT.html
projects.build/BUILT-IN_FUNCTIONS.html
projects.build/CALCULATIONS.html
projects.build/COPYRIGHT.html
projects.build/FLASHLIGHT.html
projects.build/FOR_LOOPS.html
projects.build/FUNCTION_INPUTS.html
projects.build/FUNCTION_OUTPUTS.html
projects.build/GAME_LOOPS.html
projects.build/GENERAL_PURPOSE_INPUT-OUTPUT.html
projects.build/GPIO_CONCEPT.html
projects.build/HANDLING_ERRORS.html
projects.build/HELLO,_WORLD.html
projects.build/IF_-_ELSE_STATEMENTS.html
projects.build/INTRODUCING_BUTTONS.html
projects.build/INTRODUCTION_TO_THE_IDE.html
projects.build/INTRODUCTION_TO_THE_PROJECTS_GUIDE.html
projects.build/INTRO_TO_ELECTRONICS.html
projects.build/INTRO_TO_FUNCTIONS.html
projects.build/LED_MATRIX.html
projects.build/LISTS.html
projects.build/MANY_BUTTONS.html
projects.build/MARY_HAD_A_LITTLE_LAMB.html
projects.build/MINECRAFT_GETTING_STARTED.html
projects.build/RASPBERRY_PI_POWER.html
projects.build/SIMON_1.html
projects.build/SIMON_2.html
projects.build/SIMON_3.html
projects.build/SIMON_4.html
projects.build/SIMON_5.html
projects.build/SIMON_6.html
projects.build/SIMON_7.html
projects.build/SIMON_PSEUDO.html
projects.build/SIMPLE_PIANO.html
projects.build/SOUNDS_-_SPEAKER.html
projects.build/SPACE_INVADERS_1.html
projects.build/SPACE_INVADERS_2.html
projects.build/SPACE_INVADERS_3.html
projects.build/SPACE_INVADERS_4.html
projects.build/SPACE_INVADERS_5.html
projects.build/SPACE_INVADERS_6.html
projects.build/SPACE_INVADERS_7.html
projects.build/SPACE_INVADERS_8.html
projects.build/SPACE_INVADERS_9.html
projects.build/SPACE_INVADERS_PSEUDO.html
projects.build/STRING_THEORY.html
projects.build/TROUBLESHOOTING.html
projects.build/USING_BUTTONS_WITH_GPIO.html
projects.build/USING_THE_BREADBOARD.html
projects.build/VARIABLES_-_ASSIGNMENTS.html
projects.build/WALKABLE_PIANO.html
projects.build/WHILE_LOOPS.html
projects.build/YOUR_FIRST_CIRCUIT.html
projects.build/YOUR_FIRST_SCHEMATIC.html
projects.build/codeblocks.js
projects.build/default.css
projects.build/index.html
projects.build/img/.DS_Store
projects.build/img/Audio to speaker.jpg
projects.build/img/Battery-LED-Circuit-Battery-Only.png
projects.build/img/Battery-LED-Circuit-LED-Added.png
projects.build/img/Battery-LED-Circuit-Resistor-Added.png
projects.build/img/Battery-LED-Circuit-Unlooped.png
projects.build/img/Battery-LED-Circuit-With-Button.png
projects.build/img/Battery-LED-Circuit-to-GPIO-as-Ground.png
projects.build/img/Battery-LED-Circuit-to-GPIO-as-Power.png
projects.build/img/Battery-LED-Circuit-to-GPIO.png
projects.build/img/Battery-LED-Circuit-with-Ground.png
projects.build/img/Battery-LED-Circuit.png
projects.build/img/Button_orientation_correct.png
projects.build/img/Button_orientation_wrong.png
projects.build/img/Buttons_with_GPIO_1_bb.png
projects.build/img/Buttons_with_GPIO_2_bb.png
projects.build/img/Code Window.png
projects.build/img/Connector_Power_bb.png
projects.build/img/Enter Your Code.png
projects.build/img/Flashlight_bb.png
projects.build/img/GPIO_Switch1.png
projects.build/img/GPIO_Switch2.png
projects.build/img/GPIO_Switch3.png
projects.build/img/IDE.jpg
projects.build/img/Insert audio cable.jpg
projects.build/img/Introducing_Buttons_1_bb.png
projects.build/img/Introducing_Buttons_2_bb.png
projects.build/img/Introducing_Buttons_3_bb.png
projects.build/img/Introducing_Buttons_4_bb.png
projects.build/img/Just_Power_bb.png
projects.build/img/LED finger circuit.jpg
projects.build/img/LED_Matrix_Accel_Buttons_bb.png
projects.build/img/LED_Matrix_Accel_bb.png
projects.build/img/LED_Matrix_Close_bb.png
projects.build/img/LED_Matrix_bb.png
projects.build/img/LED_Matrix_power_only_bb.png
projects.build/img/LED_Matrix_unconnected_bb.png
projects.build/img/Many_Buttons_bb.png
projects.build/img/Matrix_Cable_bb.png
projects.build/img/Matrix_bb.png
projects.build/img/PG Window.jpg
projects.build/img/Power_Strip_bb.png
projects.build/img/Program Output.png
projects.build/img/Projects Guide - 061115-2_html_36311abf.jpg
projects.build/img/Projects Guide - 061115-2_html_3b280f49.jpg
projects.build/img/Projects Guide - 061115-2_html_5defaaf3.jpg
projects.build/img/Projects Guide - 061115-2_html_68411fab.jpg
projects.build/img/Projects Guide - 061115-2_html_6e799d37.jpg
projects.build/img/Projects Guide - 061115-2_html_d028f08.png
projects.build/img/Projects Guide - 061115-2_html_m184d94fb.jpg
projects.build/img/Projects Guide - 061115-2_html_m1a88b3b3.jpg
projects.build/img/Projects Guide - 061115-2_html_m4aa427eb.png
projects.build/img/Projects Guide - 061115-2_html_m69e7ef1a.jpg
projects.build/img/Pushbutton-to-GPIO.png
projects.build/img/Pushbuttons-2-to-GPIO.png
projects.build/img/This is the Code Window.jpg
projects.build/img/Thumbs.db
projects.build/img/Your_First_Breadboard_Add_GPIO_bb.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Breadboard_Add_Power_bb.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Breadboard_Battery_Only_bb.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Breadboard_LED_Added_bb.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Breadboard_Remove_Battery_bb.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Breadboard_Resistor_Added_bb.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Breadboard_bb.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Circuit_LED.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Circuit_battery.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Circuit_complete_bb.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Circuit_connect_battery_bb.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Circuit_parts_bb.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Circuit_resistor.png
projects.build/img/Your_First_Schematic_bb.png
projects.build/img/accel.jpg
projects.build/img/api.png
projects.build/img/back.png
projects.build/img/batcropshop.jpg
projects.build/img/breadboard.jpg
projects.build/img/breadboard_example_1.png
projects.build/img/breadboard_example_2.png
projects.build/img/button1 cropped.jpg
projects.build/img/button2 cropped.jpg
projects.build/img/button2.jpg
projects.build/img/buttonright.jpg
projects.build/img/buttonwrong.jpg
projects.build/img/file_open.png
projects.build/img/folder.png
projects.build/img/forward.png
projects.build/img/gpio-schem-2_schem.png
projects.build/img/gpio-schem-3_schem.png
projects.build/img/home.png
projects.build/img/infobulb.png
projects.build/img/led.jpg
projects.build/img/pi_led.jpg
projects.build/img/play.png
projects.build/img/posts_bb.png
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-1-parts.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-10-attach-wire-2.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-11-complete.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-12-complete-and-attached.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-2-cardboard-on-foil.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-3-cardboard-on-foil-flap-1.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-4-cardboard-on-foil-flap-2.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-5-cardboard-on-foil-flipped-over.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-6-cardboard-spacer-1.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-7-cardboard-spacer-2.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-8-attach-top.jpg
projects.build/img/pressure-pad-9-attach-wire-1.jpg
projects.build/img/save.png
projects.build/img/simon-0but-0led_bb.png
projects.build/img/simon-1but-0led_bb.png
projects.build/img/simon-2but-0led_bb.png
projects.build/img/simon-3but-0led_bb.png
projects.build/img/simon-4but-0led_bb.png
projects.build/img/simon-4but-1led_bb.png
projects.build/img/simon-4but-2led_bb.png
projects.build/img/simon-4but-3led_bb.png
projects.build/img/simon-4but-4led_bb.png
projects.build/img/stop.png
projects.build/img/theme.png
raspberrystem_projects.egg-info/PKG-INFO
raspberrystem_projects.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
raspberrystem_projects.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
raspberrystem_projects.egg-info/top_level.txt