.\"                                      -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Dimitris Zlatanidis
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH Slpkg "8" "6" 2015" "slpkg"
.SH NAME
Slpkg is a user-friendly package manager for Slackware installations
.SH SYNOPSIS
Usage: slpkg Commands:
             [update, --only=[...]] [upgrade, --only=[...]]
             [repo-add [repository name] [URL]]
             [repo-remove [repository]] [repo-list]
             [repo-info [repository]] [update [slpkg]]

             Optional arguments:
             [-h] [-v]
             [-a [script] [sources...]]
             [-b [package...] --add, --remove, list]
             [-q [package...] --add, --remove, list]
             [-q [build, install, build-install]]
             [-g [print, edit=[editor]]]
             [-l [repository], --index, --installed]
             [-c [repository] --upgrade, --skip=[...] --resolve-off]
             [-s [repository] [package...], --resolve-off]
             [-t [repository] [package]]
             [-p [repository] [package], --color=[]]
             [-n [SBo package]] [-F [...]] [-f [...]]
             [-i [options] [...]] [-u [options] [...]]
             [-r [options] [...], --check-deps] [-d [...]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Slpkg is a powerful software package manager that installs, updates, and
removes packages on Slackware based systems. It automatically computes 
dependencies and figures out what things should occurto install packages. 
Slpkg makes it easier to maintain groups of machines without having to 
manually update.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version of program and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
The following commands are available.

.SS update, create and update packages list
\fBslpkg\fP \fBupdate\fP, \fB--only=[repositories...]\fP
.PP
Used to re-synchronize the package lists and create some important files.
This command must run every new repository is added or new updates is available.
With additional option "--only=" update at specifically repositories.

.SS upgrade, recreate packages list
\fBslpkg\fP \fBupgrade\fP, \fB--only=[repositories...]\fP
.PP
It is sometimes useful to create all of the base file from the beginning so this 
command delete all the package lists and recreated.
Additional option "--only=" just like "slpkg update --only=[repositories...]".

.SS repo-add, add custom repository
\fBslpkg\fP \fBrepo-add\fP <\fIrepository name\fP> <\fIURL\fP>
.PP
Add custom binary repository. The repositories will be added to this command should 
contain at least the files "PACKAGES.TXT" and "CHECKSUMS.md5" and optional file
"ChangeLog.txt" used to control changes.

.SS repo-remove, remove custom repository
\fBslpkg\fP \fBrepo-remove\fP <\fIrepository\fP> 
.PP
Remove custom repository by name.

.SS repo-list, repositories list
\fBslpkg\fP \fBrepo-list\fP
.PP
Lists all enabled or disabled repositories.

.SS repo-info, repository information
\fBslpkg\fP \fBrepo-info\fP <\fBrepository\fP>
.PP
View repository information.

.SS update slpkg
\fBslpkg\fP \fBupdate\fP \fBslpkg\fP
.PP
You can check for new versions and update slpkg itself.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following arguments are available.

.SS -a, --autobuild, auto build packages
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-a\fP <\fIscript.tar.gz\fP> <\fIsources\fP>
.PP
If you already have download the script and source with this argument you can build Slackware 
package from source quickly and easy.

.SS -b, --blacklist, add, remove, view packages in blacklist
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-b\fP <\fIname of packages\fP> \fB--add\fP, \fB--remove\fP, \fBlist\fP
.PP
Add, remove or listed packages from blacklist file. The settings here affect 
all repositories. Remove all packages from blacklist use argument "ALL" for package 
like "# slpkg -b ALL --remove". Use asterisk "*" to match pagkages like "# slpkg -b 
py* --add", this add all installed packages with starts string "py" or "# slpkg -b 
multi:*multilib* --add", this add all multilib packages from repository "multi".

.SS -q, --queue, add, remove, view packages in queue
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-q\fP <\fInames of packages\fP> \fB--add\fP, \fB--remove\fP
.TP
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-q\fP \fBlist\fP, \fBbuild\fP, \fBinstall\fP, \fBbuild-install\fP
.PP
Add, remove and listed sbo packages from queue. This argument is very useful if you want
to build and install multiple packages together. Note the correct order if there are 
dependencies. If you want to remove all the packages from the list run "# slpkg -q ALL --remove". 
(these arguments only working for the sbo repository)
Build or install or build and install packages are queued.

.SS -g, --config, configuration file management
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-g\fP \fBprint\fP, \fBedit=[editor]\fP
.PP
Print configuration file or edit with your favorite editor.

.SS -l, --list, list of installed packages
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-l\fP <\fIrepository\fP>, \fB--index\fP, \fB--installed\fP
.PP
Print a list of all available packages repository, index or print only packages installed on the 
system. Support command "grep" like "# slpkg -l sbo | grep python".

.SS -c, --check, check if your packages is up to date
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-c\fP <\fIrepository\fP> \fB--upgrade\fP \fB--skip=[packages...]\fP, 
\fB--resolve-off\fP
.PP
Check your packages if up to date. Option "--skip=" help to skip packages when upgrading and
additional option "--resolve-off" switch off automatic resolve dependencies.
Slackware patches repository works independently of the others i.e not need before updating 
the list of packages by choosing "# slpkg update", works directly with the official repository 
and so always you can have updated your system. 
Also you can check ChangeLog.txt for changes without option "--upgrade" like:
"# slpkg -c [repository]" or check all enabled repositories just replace repository name with
"ALL". NOTE: for option "--skip=" support asterisk "*" to match packages like "*string*" or per
repository like "sbo:*_SBo", this skip all packages from SBo repository.

.SS -s, --sync, synchronize packages, download, build and install package with all dependencies
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-s\fP <\fIrepository\fP> <\fInames of packages\fP>, \fB--resolve-off\fP
.PP
Installs or upgrade packages from the repositories with automatically resolving all 
dependencies of the package. Switch off automatic resolve dependencies with additional option 
"--resolve-off".

.SS -t, --tracking,  tracking dependencies
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-t\fP <\fIrepository\fP> <\fIname of package\fP>
.PP
Tracking all dependencies of that package.
The sequence shown is that you must follow to correctly install package.
Also you can check if the installed package has all the required dependencies.

.SS -p, --desk, print packages description
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-p\fP <\fIrepository\fP> <\fIname of package\fP>, \fB--color=[]\fP
.PP
Print package description from remote repository with color. Available colors: 
red, green, yellow, cyan, grey

.SS -F, --FIND, find packages from repositories
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-F\fP <\fInames of packages\fP>
.PP
Find packages from all repositories are enabled. Useful command to find all available 
packages per repository.
 
.SS -f, --find, find istalled packages
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-f\fP <\fInames of packages\fP>
.PP
Find installed packages with view total file size. 
Example you can view all installed sbo packages like "# slpkg -f _SBo".

.SS -n, --network, view SBo packages
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-n\fP <\fIname of package\fP>
.PP
View complete slackbuilds.org site in your terminal. Read file, download, 
build or install etc.

.SS -i, --installpkg, install Slackware binary packages
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-i\fP \fB[--warn, --md5sum, --root /otherroot, --infobox, --menu, --terse, 
--ask, --priority ADD|REC|OPT|SKP, --tagfile /somedir/tagfile]\fP <\fIpackages.t?z\fP>
.PP
Installs single binary packages designed for use with the Slackware Linux 
distribution into your system. More information please read "man installpkg".

.SS -u, --upgradepkg, install-upgrade Slackware binary packages with new
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-u\fP \fB[--dry-run, --install-new, --reinstall, --verbose]\fP <\fIpackages.t?z\fP>
.PP
Normally upgrade only upgrades packages that are already installed on the system, 
and will skip any packages that do not already have a version installed. 
More information please read "man upgradepkg".

.SS -r, --removepkg, remove previously installed Slackware binary packages
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-r\fP \fB[-copy, -keep, -preserve, -warn]\fP <\fInames of packages\fP>, \fB--check-deps\fP
.PP
Removes a previously installed Slackware package, while writing a progress report to 
the standard output. A package may be specified either by the full package name (as 
you'd see listed in /var/log/packages/), or by the base package name. If installed
packages with command "slpkg -s <repo> <packages>" then write a file in /var/log/slpkg/dep/ 
with all dependencies and it allows you can remove them all together. But with the additional
option "--check-deps" report a list of packages we are dependencies in use.
More information please read "man removepkg".

.SS -d, --display, display the installed packages contents and file list
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-d\fP <\fInames of packages\fP>
.PP
Display the installed Slackware packages contents and file list with all descriptions.

.SH HELP OPTION
Specifying the help option displays help for slpkg itself, or a
command.
.br
For example:
  \fBslpkg \-\-help\fP - display help for slpkg

.SH DEFAULT REPOSITORIES 
 slackware.com = "slack"
 SlackBuilds.org = "sbo"
 Alien"s = "alien"
 slacky.eu = "slacky"
 rworkman"s = "rlw"
 studioware.org = "studio"
 slacker.it = "slackr"
 slackonly.com = "slonly"
 Alien"s ktown = "ktown{latest}"
 Alien"s multilib = "multi"
 Slacke E17 and E18 = "slacke{18}"
 SalixOS = "salix"
 Slackel.gr = "slackel"
 Alien"s restricted = "rested"
 MATE Desktop Environment = "msb{1.10}"
   
 Default enable repository is "slack" and "sbo".
 Add or remove default repository in configuration file "/etc/slpkg/slpkg.conf".
 Read REPOSITORIES file for explanations.

.SH COLORS
 red, green, yellow, cyan, grey

.SH REGEX
 For options "--skip=" and blacklist file.

 All packages starts with: "string*"
 All packages ends with: "*string"
 All packages include: "*string*"

.SH PASS VARIABLES TO SCRIPT
 If you want to pass variables to the script exported as: 
 Usage: <NAME_VARIABLE=value>

 Example:
 "# export FFMPEG_X264=yes FFMPEG_LAME=yes"

.SH FILES
/etc/slpkg/slpkg.conf
     General configuration of slpkg

/etc/slpkg/blacklist
     List of packages to skip

/etc/slpkg/slackware-mirrors
     List of Slackware Mirrors

/etc/slpkg/custom-repositories
     List of custom repositories

/var/log/slpkg
     ChangeLog.txt repositories files
     SlackBuilds logs and dependencies files

/var/lib/slpkg
     PACKAGES.TXT files 
     SLACKBUILDS.TXT files
     CHECKSUMS.md5 files
     FILELIST.TXT files

/tmp/slpkg
     Slpkg temponary donwloaded files and build packages

/etc/slpkg/slackware-changelogs-mirror
     Slackware changelogs mirror

.SH AUTHOR
Dimitris Zlatanidis <d.zlatanidis@gmail.com>
.SH HOMEPAGE
https://github.com/dslackw/slpkg
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2015 Dimitris Zlatanidis

.SH SEE ALSO
installpkg(8), upgradepkg(8), removepkg(8), pkgtool(8), slackpkg(8), explodepkg(8),
makepkg(8).
